tutorial_04_monitoring_visual_dashboard_setup.md, before:

## Monitoring Setup

Now we add the Dashboard that is in the dashboard folder.

### Set up Prometheus as source

First open a web browser and open the URL `http://node01:3000`. You should see the Grafana GUI. Afterwards we add Prometheus as our data source. On the Grafana page click on `Home` and select `Connections`.

![grafanaClickOnHome.jpg](pictures/grafanaClickOnHome.png)

![grafanaOpenConnections.jpg](pictures/grafanaOpenConnections.png)

Next search for Prometheus and select it.

![grafanaSerchForPrometheus.jpg](pictures/grafanaSerchForPrometheus.png)

Here click on `Add new data source` and enter as the `Connection` URL the Prometheus URL of node01 which is `http://node01:9090`.

![grafanaAddNewDataSource.jpg](pictures/grafanaAddNewDataSource.png)

![grafanaAddPrometheusURL.jpg](pictures/grafanaAddPrometheusURL.png)

Next save the UID which is the last end of the URL alter the last slash `/` and click on `Save & test`.

![grafanaPrometheusUID.jpg](pictures/grafanaPrometheusUID.png)

![grafanaClickOnSaveAndTest.jpg](pictures/grafanaClickOnSaveAndTest.png)


### Dashboard import

Now click on the `building a dashboard`.

![grafanaOpenDashboard.jpg](pictures/grafanaOpenDashboard.png)

Afterwards click on the `Import dashboard`.

![grafanaImportDashboard.jpg](pictures/grafanaImportDashboard.png)

In the next window drag and drop the `Pi Cluster.json` file into the box and click on Import

![grafanaClickOnImport.jpg](pictures/grafanaClickOnImport.png)

Next we need to update the UID of our Prometheus datasource. Click on the settings button, i.e. the little gear symbol, and

![grafanaDaschboardClickOnSettingsButton.jpg](pictures/grafanaDaschboardClickOnSettingsButton.png)

![grafanaSettingsSelectJSONModel.jpg](pictures/grafanaSettingsSelectJSONModel.png)

Here search with `ctrl + f` for all occurences of `"uid": "null"` and replace it with your datasource UID that you copied earlier.

Click on `Save changes` and `Close`. Afterwards you should see a similar dashboard to the following one.

![grafanaExampleDashboard.jpg](pictures/grafanaExampleDashboard.png)

### IO test with Fio

Now you can download the benchmarking tool `Fio` and test if the dashboard will change when we run a simple read write example.

```bash
ssh pi@node05
sudo apt --yes install fio
fio --rw=read --name=test --size=2000M --direct=1 --bs=1M
fio --rw=write --name=test --size=2000M --direct=1 --bs=1M
```

Commit message:

Added default user and password to Grafana UI in tutorial_04_monitoring_visual_dashboard_setup.md

tutorial_04_monitoring_visual_dashboard_setup.md, after:

## Monitoring Setup

Now we add the Dashboard that is in the dashboard folder.

### Set up Prometheus as source

First open a web browser and open the URL `http://node01:3000`. You should see the Grafana GUI. Use the default user `admin` and password `admin` to log in. Afterwards we add Prometheus as our data source. On the Grafana page click on `Home` and select `Connections`.

![grafanaClickOnHome.jpg](pictures/grafanaClickOnHome.png)

![grafanaOpenConnections.jpg](pictures/grafanaOpenConnections.png)

Next search for Prometheus and select it.

![grafanaSerchForPrometheus.jpg](pictures/grafanaSerchForPrometheus.png)

Here click on `Add new data source` and enter as the `Connection` URL the Prometheus URL of node01 which is `http://node01:9090`.

![grafanaAddNewDataSource.jpg](pictures/grafanaAddNewDataSource.png)

![grafanaAddPrometheusURL.jpg](pictures/grafanaAddPrometheusURL.png)

Next save the UID which is the last end of the URL alter the last slash `/` and click on `Save & test`.

![grafanaPrometheusUID.jpg](pictures/grafanaPrometheusUID.png)

![grafanaClickOnSaveAndTest.jpg](pictures/grafanaClickOnSaveAndTest.png)


### Dashboard import

Now click on the `building a dashboard`.

![grafanaOpenDashboard.jpg](pictures/grafanaOpenDashboard.png)

Afterwards click on the `Import dashboard`.

![grafanaImportDashboard.jpg](pictures/grafanaImportDashboard.png)

In the next window drag and drop the `Pi Cluster.json` file into the box and click on Import

![grafanaClickOnImport.jpg](pictures/grafanaClickOnImport.png)

Next we need to update the UID of our Prometheus datasource. Click on the settings button, i.e. the little gear symbol, and

![grafanaDaschboardClickOnSettingsButton.jpg](pictures/grafanaDaschboardClickOnSettingsButton.png)

![grafanaSettingsSelectJSONModel.jpg](pictures/grafanaSettingsSelectJSONModel.png)

Here search with `ctrl + f` for all occurences of `"uid": "null"` and replace it with your datasource UID that you copied earlier.

Click on `Save changes` and `Close`. Afterwards you should see a similar dashboard to the following one.

![grafanaExampleDashboard.jpg](pictures/grafanaExampleDashboard.png)

### IO test with Fio

Now you can download the benchmarking tool `Fio` and test if the dashboard will change when we run a simple read write example.

```bash
ssh pi@node05
sudo apt --yes install fio
fio --rw=read --name=test --size=2000M --direct=1 --bs=1M
fio --rw=write --name=test --size=2000M --direct=1 --bs=1M
```
